Assignment 3 - Help 
=========================

This file is to assist students in preparing their Assignment 3 (A3) individual project and should be used in collection with `a3_skeleton` package and week 12 packages `a3_support` and `project_example`. These packages are to be found in your github repositories [scratch](../../scratch) and [tutorial / week12](./) folders. Each of these packages contain a certain type of scaffolding of content. Unlike Assignment 1/2 where we interacted with your assignment via a library (and therefore supplied interface classes that you had to inherit from), in the final Assignment 3 we interact with your code at the level of topics/services. Topics and services allow us to affect your code behaviour at rum-time (at execution).  

In A3 having the correct topics/services forms part of marking criteria, and therefore we can not provide a package with all these laid out. Instead, it is your task to set them out depening on the project. In order for your package to compile/function you need to alter `package.xml` and `CMakeLists.txt` with the requirements (this has been introduced in `week10` and then reinforced in `quiz5` and `week11` material) and then modify your code with the topics/subscribers.

The specifics of topics/service and how your code should behave are specified on canvas in the Assignment specification. This document serves to indicate how you could develop your submission. Your A3 needs to be:

- single package
- interact with topics and services as described in the specifications
- process laser data to undertake the mission 
- contain a library and ros bags for unit testing (the unit tests YOU develop)
- have a control loop running at guaranteed rate and does not have tight loop that blocks (prevents it from stopping)
- contains a switch via a ros parameter (only for D/HD)

Below contains a breakdown of what each package brings conceptually.

#### project_example

The requirement of Assessment 3 is to deliver your code as a single package. Recall that in A1/A2 each of your two parts of system (mission/controller - which were libraries) each had there own `PfmsConnector`. The translation to ROS woudl be for each part to be a node with direct connection to ROS. And that in between the two nodes we have topics or services for interaction.

The most suitable arrangement is to develop your code as a mission node and a controller node in the same package. The  `project_example` package contains such an arrangement, with a `mission` and a `quadcopter` node.  It also contains a thread and timer in `Mission` and a timer in `Quadcopter`.  

However, it does not have all topics required, it does not have services, unit tests, library, ros bag, state machine. It neither subscribes nor has any class/function that deal with any sensor data. Further,  when requiring to abandon a mission (stop for whatever case - user input or emergency) you also need to immediately stop the platform. This is not facilitated in this example. 

For the context of A3, you can make your mission node work with laser data instead of controller node - given the task of analysing laser data (perception) informs the control (goals etc). 

To allow some interactivity with this example piece of code, here we subscribe to `goal_pose` topic which is published to from `2D Goal Pose` tool introduced in  [tutorial / week12](./). This is not the method you pass goals to your A3, it is not the correct topic your A3 needs to subscribe to, rather just an example. So clicking on screen with the tool will results in Quadcopter moving to the goal (or any number of goals sent).

#### a3_skeleton

The requirement of Assessment 3 is to deliver code that has unit tests and a library (on the sensor data). The `a3_skeleton` contains a library (`LaserProcessing`) which is unit tested and has ros bags for the test. The library is also used inside the `Sample` class. It contains a thread and timer in mission and a timer in `Sample`. It also has a service example, though your A3 requires a different service message type. The package.xml and the CMakeLists.txt facilitate building a library, linking it to ROS dependencies, assembling unit testing and distributing the ros bag for testing via `data` folder. 

In the context of A3, you could consider `Sample` as your either class that does higher level tasks (mission). In A3 you can make your mission node work with laser data instead of controller node - given the task of analysing laser data (perception) informs the control (goals etc).

#### a3_support

Supplying goals is a essential task for this assessment (P/C) portion requires reasoning from goals supplied. This package is there to support supplying goals from a file. The  other concepts relevant to the A3 is the way parameters and remapping is achieved. Parameters allow us to pass information at the beginning of execution of the node (like and argv / arc in standard C++). Remapping allows us to publish/subscribe to a different topic to that in the code without recompiling.

Do not need to integrate this code or node in your submission, do not submit it as your own code. It is there for you to test your submission,

Example GOALS for each project are supplied, the process to publish them so they are available to the ROS system and your A3, the use of ros parameter to load alternative files is the focus of week 12 activity outlined in [WEEK 12 TUTORIAL](./TUTORIAL.md).

In summary, the `goal_publisher` node loads goals from a file supplied and publishes them on two topics (`/goals` and `/visualization_marker`). 

Introducing [ros parameters](https://docs.ros.org/en/foxy/Tutorials/Beginner-CLI-Tools/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters/Understanding-ROS2-Parameters.html), this package allows to load different set of goals via command line (FYI: depending on project replace `ACKERMAN.TXT` with `QUADCOPTER.TXT`) as well as change the topic they are published to (let's say `/mission/goals`)	

```bash
ros2 run a3_support goals_publisher --ros-args --remap goals:=mission/goals -p filename:=$HOME/ros2_ws/install/a3_support/share/a3_support/data/ACKERMAN.TXT
```
